---
title: Databox appearing at the Decennial
layout: post
section: blog
author: Richard Mortier <richard.mortier@cl.cam.ac.uk>
---

Short paper accepted to [AARHUS'15](http://aarhus2015.org/)!

Things are picking up -- our short paper submission
[Personal Data: Thinking Inside the Box]() concerning the Databox, based on our
[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1501.04737) paper. This puts forward some of our
ideas and plans around the Databox, as well as some of the challenges we see in
building and successfully deploying it.

The full abstract is:

_We are in a ‘personal data gold rush’ driven by the dominance of advertising as
the primary revenue source for most online companies. These companies accumulate
extensive personal data about individuals with minimal consideration of us, the
subjects of this process. This can cause many harms: privacy infringement,
personal and professional embarrassment, restricted access to labour markets,
restricted access to highest value pricing, and many others. There is a critical
need to provide technical alternatives to current practice, to enable
individuals to participate in the processes of collection, management and
consumption of personal data, thereby returning means of control to them. In
this paper we discuss the Databox, a personal networked device (and associated
services) that collates and mediates access to personal data, allowing us to
recover control of our online lives. Our hope is that the Databox is a first
step towards re-balancing power between us who are the data subjects, and the
corporations that collect, hold and use our data._

Really hoping I'll be able to make it to Aarhus to see the presentation[^1] and
take part in the discussion -- the accepted papers mean it looks like it'll be
an exciting event!

[^1]: Unfortunately Aarhus collides precisely with [SIGCOMM'15](http://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2015/) :(
